# FINTECH CASE STUDY

## Overview and Origin

* The name of the company in this case study is OpenSea.

* OpenSea was launched in 2017.

* Alex Attalah and Devin Finzer are the founders.

* Alex and Devin were some of the early adopters of CrytoKitties, a blockchain game for purchasing, collecting and breeding virtual cats using the ethereum protocol. According to the two, OpenSea was born as a result of the need for a marketplace where digital assets could be traded securely between two untrusted parties. 

* Since May 2017, the company has received more than $23 million in funding from a number of companies some of which include YCombinator, Founders Fund, Coinbase Ventures, 1Confirmation, and Blockchain Capital.


## Business Activities:

* OpenSeas prides itself as being "The first decentralized marketplace for crypto collectibles". A crypto collectible is a cryptographically signed digital asset. Cryptographically signed means each asset is marked by a unique identification generated by a number of computer algorithms. Such assets may include  virtual trading cards, music and video clips, video art, tweets or even virtual real estate. OpenSeas deals primarily in NFTs or Non-Fungible Tokens. An NFT is most useful when it comes to authenticating ownership of digital assets.  A more detailed explanation of fungibility and its relation to digital assets is explained further down 

* The company’s intended customers are crypto token collectors and digital art collectors.

* OpenSea was launched not too long after the NFT standard was introduced. Its unique vantage point is based on what is popular known as the first mover advantage. The founders  also claim to have seen nearly every NFT-related project that has come online since late 2017.

* OpenSeas marketplace uses non-fungible tokens or NFTs based on ethereum blockchain for all of its trading activities. A blockchain is simply a protocol used to create cryptographically signed immutable records. The idea of blockchain is easily understood if we think of these records as being chained in a block formation. New records are added to the block only if they are agreed on through mutual censuses of decentralized computers. These records can be fungible or non-fungible and can sometimes hold monetary values as  any other asset. Bitcoin is a famous example of a record/asset. Fungibility of an asset means it can be directly exchanged for an identical asset. One bitcoin for example remains one bitcoin and retains its value regardless of  its wallet of origination or termination. Non-fungible assets however cannot be directly exchanged for other assets due to the fact that they are designed to be unique. Non-fungible crypto tokens are usually created through ethereum’s smart contract.  They contain unchangeable electronic information starting with the token’s creation as well as every sale making them the excellent choice for authenticating digital ownership.


## Landscape:

* OpenSeas is considered as a peer-to-peer marketplace for crypto assets backed by blockchain. 

*  There has been a rise in the usage of NFT related technologies over the last 5-10 years. For example Decentraland, a virtual world has been used for several online gatherings during the COVID-19 pandemic. Major companies like Marvel games are gradually getting into NFTs. (Wax recently announced its partnership with Marvel games). Data from nonfungible.com also shows  an uptick in the sales of crypto art over the last couple of years.

* Other companies in this domain include Zora, Rarible, Atomic Market, Foundation, Myth.Market, Simple Market, Axie Market, KnownOrigin, Decentraland, Miime, Collect.

## Results

* OpenSeas has had over $200 million in trading volume since launching in 2017. They currently have over 12 million listed assets listed as well as over 200 apps built using their platform. They are also one of the few NFT based companies to enable crypto asset integration for Coinbase Wallet.


* OpenSeas uses peer to peer sales of non-fungible tokens(estimated to be between $23-3 million per month) as a core indicator of its market size with the median seller having sold $71.96 worth of products whereas the average seller has sold $1,178 worth of products within the last six months.

* OpenSeas has a considerable market share being the largest marketplace in its space. A report from https://dappradar.com/nft/marketplace puts OpenSeas in the number two position using overall trading volume ($262.17 million) and number of overall active traders (84,722) out of fifteen NFT marketplaces.



## Recommendations

*  Bounty hunting is the process of connecting a buyer with a seller on OpenSeas for a percentage of the final sale. My advice to the company would be to partner with established battle Royale games like Fortnite. Bounties could be designed as hidden tokens for players to unlock.

* The product suggested above has the ability to make digital art more discoverable and NFTS widely acceptable as these platforms host huge numbers of congregants.

* Integration of bounty hunting into existing games would mean making them accessible on web based platforms and on native apps.

* Native apps are built using popular languages such as Java, C#, C++. Some of the most famous web based languages include html and Javascript.


### References

https://opensea.io/blog
https://www.blockchain-council.org/
https://help.coinbase.com/
https://nonfungible.com
https://www.ycombinator.com/companies/1844
https://www.playtoearn.online
